README.md, before:

# OpenVAS Docker Lite

A Docker container with OpenVAS 9 based on the Ubuntu 18.04 image.

It also contains custom automation script that allows to scan selected targets and generate a report with one command.

It is lite version and it does not contain Greenbone Security Assistant - web app for managing OpenVAS.

## Usage

### 1. Pull image:

```
docker pull thedoctor0/openvas-docker-lite
```

### 2. Scan and save report:

```
docker run --rm -v $(pwd):/reports/:rw thedoctor0/openvas-docker-lite python scan.py <target>
```

This will start up the container and update the NVTs cache - it can take some time, so be patient.

After that, the scan script will run and the progress will be displayed in the console.

#### Output

It is possible to specify output filename with **-o** or **--output** argument.

By default report is saved as *openvas.report*.

#### Formats

1. Anonymous XML
2. ARF
3. CPE
4. CSV Hosts
5. CSV Results
6. HTML
7. ITG
8. LaTeX
9. NBE
10. PDF
11. Topology SVG
12. TXT
13. Verinice ISM
14. Verinice ITG
15. XML

You can select what report format will be used with **-f** or **--format** argument with one of the available profiles.

By default *ARF* format is used to generate the report.

#### Profiles

1. Discovery
2. Empty
3. Full and fast
4. Full and fast ultimate
5. Full and very deep
6. Full and very deep ultimate
7. Host Discovery
8. System Discovery

You can select scan profile by adding **-p** or **--profile** argument with one of the available profiles.

By default *Full and fast* profile is used.

#### Alive Tests

1. Scan Config Default
2. ICMP, TCP-ACK Service & ARP Ping
3. TCP-ACK Service & ARP Ping
4. ICMP & ARP Ping
5. ICMP & TCP-ACK Service Ping
6. ARP Ping
7. TCP-ACK Service Ping
8. TCP-SYN Service Ping
9. ICMP Ping
10. Consider Alive

You can select scan alive tests by adding **-t** or **--tests** argument with one of the available tests.

By default *ICMP, TCP-ACK Service & ARP Ping* alive tests are used.

#### Exclude Hosts

You can exclude hosts from specified target by adding **-e** or **--exclude** argument with list of IPs.

By default list of excluded hosts is empty.

#### Update

You can also add **--update** argument to force update.

This will synchronize OpenVAS feeds before making the scan.

Feeds update is slow, so it will take significantly more time.

## Credits
- Mike Splain for creating the original OpenVAS docker image
- ICTU team for creating the base automation script for OpenVAS

Commit message:

Refactored message outputs and added --debug argument.

README.md, after:

# OpenVAS Docker Lite

A Docker container with OpenVAS 9 based on the Ubuntu 18.04 image.

It also contains custom automation script that allows to scan selected targets and generate a report with one command.

It is lite version and it does not contain Greenbone Security Assistant - web app for managing OpenVAS.

## Usage

### 1. Pull image:

```
docker pull thedoctor0/openvas-docker-lite
```

### 2. Scan and save report:

```
docker run --rm -v $(pwd):/reports/:rw thedoctor0/openvas-docker-lite python scan.py <target>
```

This will start up the container and update the NVTs cache - it can take some time, so be patient.

After that, the scan script will run and the progress will be displayed in the console.

#### Output

It is possible to specify output filename with **-o** or **--output** argument.

By default report is saved as *openvas.report*.

#### Formats

1. Anonymous XML
2. ARF
3. CPE
4. CSV Hosts
5. CSV Results
6. HTML
7. ITG
8. LaTeX
9. NBE
10. PDF
11. Topology SVG
12. TXT
13. Verinice ISM
14. Verinice ITG
15. XML

You can select what report format will be used with **-f** or **--format** argument with one of the available profiles.

By default *ARF* format is used to generate the report.

#### Profiles

1. Discovery
2. Empty
3. Full and fast
4. Full and fast ultimate
5. Full and very deep
6. Full and very deep ultimate
7. Host Discovery
8. System Discovery

You can select scan profile by adding **-p** or **--profile** argument with one of the available profiles.

By default *Full and fast* profile is used.

#### Alive Tests

1. Scan Config Default
2. ICMP, TCP-ACK Service & ARP Ping
3. TCP-ACK Service & ARP Ping
4. ICMP & ARP Ping
5. ICMP & TCP-ACK Service Ping
6. ARP Ping
7. TCP-ACK Service Ping
8. TCP-SYN Service Ping
9. ICMP Ping
10. Consider Alive

You can select scan alive tests by adding **-t** or **--tests** argument with one of the available tests.

By default *ICMP, TCP-ACK Service & ARP Ping* alive tests are used.

#### Exclude Hosts

You can exclude hosts from specified target by adding **-e** or **--exclude** argument with list of IPs.

By default list of excluded hosts is empty.

#### Debug

You can enable printing OMP command responses and OpenVAS logs by adding **--debug** argument.

#### Update

You can also add **--update** argument to force update.

This will synchronize OpenVAS feeds before making the scan.

Feeds update is slow, so it will take significantly more time.

## Credits
- Mike Splain for creating the original OpenVAS docker image
- ICTU team for creating the base automation script for OpenVAS
